Every year, each logistics department gets a budget
for expendable supplies.
Costs associated with the supplies would be
the costs to order, the costs to pay additional shipping
fees for emergent orders, and the costs to manage
the supplies.
If there is robust management of the supply chain
and all the expendable supplies then the costs
would decrease.
This is a huge incentive to manage supplies properly.
As what is not spent on additional costs can then be
used for other supplies and to treat patients.
For example, a logistics department for the medical
surgical area gets a budget of 1.5 million
dollars annually.
The money is managed fairly well,
but there is an issue of completing emergency orders
throughout the year, because proper supply levels
have not been set.
As a result the costs to complete emergent orders
each year is about 35 thousand dollars.
If the levels were set correctly and managed
by logistics staff, that 35 thousand dollars could
be used to purchase needed items that would not
otherwise be ordered to improve patient care.